Learning about SEO

XML Sitemaps

Resources:
https://moz.com/blog/xml-sitemaps


I have been working for our company's corporate site. It is a multi-tentacle process that involves really almost the whole organization
in one way or another. 

We have to have the correct information about the state of the product. The sales and marketing input, the leadership approval and then there is the 
design aspects which can be 2 or 3 resources, some external to our internal team, and finally the SEO concerns. While looking into the SEO 
goals for our site.

In the process of exploring how we wanted to change the layout for the site we re-vamped the site map - a diagram of how the pages will be
interconnected and the heirachy  of the information we felt would be most useful for new and existing customers. While working on this task I cam
to realize that there are multiple definitions for site map. It can mean that diagram that is used while designing the website but it can also 
mean an actual part of the website where you provide the user with a list of links to parts of your website. Sitemap can also refer to an XML file that lists
URLS for a site in addition to providing metadata about each of those URLs. When relating this to SEO, there
is the XML sitemap, which is I wanted to dive deeper what exactly the XML Sitemap is used for and why we should care about it. Also, what are some
common mistakes that can be made while navigatings these items.

But before we get to the actual XML sitemap we have to know more about what Google is looking for
when it decides which pages to return when a user enters words into its search. If you have
a site that has only a few really high quality content pages but many more filler pages, Google
is less likely to send a user there because they will probably end up clicking somewhere
else in your site, which could have less quality, thus making the whole path less useful if it was
graded as a whole. 

Since many pages of a website are more for just general information about a business, etc.. these could
be left out of a sitemap for search engines because they are necessary but interesting as a 
landing point for a google search. As such, utility pages should not be included in your XML sitemap. Mostly becuase
if you include them, Google will judge them as lesser quality, and it will bring down the total 
score of your website. Thus your Google rating as a research result.

Merci à très bientôt ! 
